President Iwasaki makes a New Year Greeting Speech 

Happy New Year everyone!
 I believe everyone enjoyed their New Year break thanks to the nine
consecutive holidays this year. It is an honor to be able to make a
New Year speech in front of everyone.
 As we look at world affairs, it seems as if we started the year of
2008 with various volatilities in politics and in economics. In
Japan, there have been many incidents, both in the public and the
private sector that lead to the loss of people's trust, credit, and
faith. In addition to that, issues regarding regional differences
have not been solved either.
The global warming issue has taken a step forward from a phase in
which people are only aware of potential harm to human beings to a
hase where people world-wide now can understand hazards facing the
Earth.This progress is based on scientific research such as the
fourth IPCC Report and the COP13, and the numerical simulation using
super computer earth simulators in Japan has been a big contribution
to this. Through this research, it has started to be understood that
global warming is caused by tremendous amounts of carbon dioxide
emissions and the Earth will suffer greatly if we do not do anything
about it.

There has been a great demand in nurturing human resources that could
address these present volatile situations. In order to resolve a huge
issue like global warming, there is a demand for educating students in
a wide range of academics and also integrating knowledges as well.

The responsibilities of higher education (especially in universities)
is essential in doing this and there has been higher expectations from
society towards university education nowadays. Universities must
change themselves to meet up to these expectations. However, the
economic situation of Japan has been very unsteady and the budget for
higher education has only been 0.5 % of the GDP, which is a very low
rate compared to other developed countries. Taking all these factors
into consideration, as a 'university staff member,' I believe that
investment in higher education is and always will be the same as
investing in the future, and in advocating this, there must definitely
be a change in universities and how they operate. 

This year will be the fifth year since the University of Tsukuba was
converted to an independent corporate entity and we are required to
turn in a report of the past four years and our present situation by
the end of June We have been preparing for this however, yet since the
regulations have not been clarified, we do not know which factors will
be emphasized in the assessment and how it will be reflected in the
next budget proportion from the government. Either way, it is crucial
for us to keep on striving to become a better university.

>From this perspective, it is important for us to go back and question
what higher education should be in such a harsh and rapidly changing
world, analyze the current situation of the University of Tsukuba,
construct a future vision of our university based on our strengths and
features, and create strategies that will realize this future
vision. This is the '2020 Vision of the University of Tsukuba.' and we
are hoping to complete it within this year with everyone's help.
 During the past year, we were able to make considerable progress in
becoming a more concrete independent corporate entity thanks to our
staff. To give some examples, in terms of education, we were able to
welcome incoming students under a new college and cluster system. In
terms of research, we started an Organization for the Support and
Development of Strategic Initiatives. In terms of student support, we
have a newly-established Student Plaza and the University of Tsukuba
Gallery; furthermore, we have improved dissemination of information
about the university. Last, but not least, we have also launched a new
financial accounting system and have been able to experiment with a
new staff assessment system. We have many other examples as well and
we were able to make progress in various fields last year.
 This year's mission is to first, complete a 'Tsukuba Standard.' This
is an important endeavor for educational facilities like our
university, to have our own educational mission, think of ways of
achieving them, and then declaring these strategies to ourselves and
to the public. Of course, it is impossible to make everything perfect
from the beginning, but this process will be a way to publicize our
position in nurturing human resources for the future and we see this
step as something of vital important.
 Another mission is to improve the quality of educational research and
strengthen our management base since there will be a new human
resource-payment system that will start this April. At that time the
administration, research information, and financial systems will be
reorganized along with this system. This will be a crucial phase in
improving our management and our administration efficiency.
 I will be repeating what I said in the first meeting of the Section
for Operational Improvement. It is true that society perceives the
speed of change of the appearance of the university to be much faster
than the speed of the actual reformation of the university itself. I
feel a bit uneasy with this perspective. Speeding up our reformation
is more important than anything else and I have mentioned these
following three concepts to improve our administration work.
 First, we shall be free from the traditional approach and be
positive-minded about the fact that anything is possible thanks to
becoming an independent corporate entity.
 Second, I would like our staff to focus not on whose job a particular
task is, but to keep in mind the idea of 'customer-oriented' and think
what will be good for the students. Moreover, you should cooperate in
supporting research that will become useful for society. In other
words, please have an outward-looking mindset rather than an
inward-looking view. 
 Third, please be aware of being 'prompt.' We understand you are
working very hard each day but it is almost impossible to see our
'speediness' as a whole. Whatever the cause, it is important for each
of our staff members to 'exert their best in their work by thinking
for themselves.' By doing this, we will be able to become a 'think
tank.' 
 All in all, it is important for you to keep in mind being
'positive-minded, outward-looking, and prompt,' and for each of you to
be creative in your own fields.
 Last, but not least, we hope for the University of Tsukuba to make
further significant progress this year, and I will take the lead in
strengthening our base. I will sincerely appreciate everyone's best
efforts to make this come true. Thank you.
